# Towards-Real-Time-Facial-Landmark-Detection-in-Depth-Data-using-Auxiliary-Information
Modern facial motion capture systems employ a two-pronged approach for capturing and rendering facial motion. Visual data (2D) is used for tracking the facial features and predicting facial expression, whereas Depth (3D) data is used to build a series of expressions on a 3D face models. An issue with modern research approaches is the use of a single data stream that provides little indication of the 3D facial structure. We compare and analyse the performance of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) using visual, Depth and merged data to identify facial features in real-time using a Depth sensor. First, we review the facial landmarking algorithms and its datasets for Depth data. We address the limitation of the current datasets by introducing the Kinect One Expression Dataset (KOED). Then, we propose the use of CNNs for the single data stream and merged data streams for facial landmark detection. We contribute to existing work by performing a full evaluation on which streams are the most effective for the field of facial landmarking. Furthermore,  we improve upon the existing work by extending neural networks to predict into 3D landmarks in real-time with additional observations on the impact of using 2D landmarks as auxiliary information. We evaluate the performance by using Mean Square Error (MSE) and Mean Average Error (MAE). We observe that the single data stream predicts accurate facial landmarks on Depth data when auxiliary information is used to train the network. 
